[Music]
welcome to slash forward the channel
will we provide summarization and
commentary of all your favorite popular
and obscure horror movies in this video
we're gonna be looking at David
Cronenberg's 1979 film the brood
conceived by Cronenberg as he was going
through a divorce and subsequent custody
battle it demonstrates that while you
may not appreciate all of his movies you
never have to wonder what's on his mind
let's peer into it now
[Music]
the movie opens on two dudes in the dark
room engaged in a match of mental judo I
guess it's just a week pass the
character we come to know is dr. Raglan
initiates his strategy of total
domination it probably would have been
benefit you to be born a girl and things
begin to get strange I could look you in
the eye if I wanted to daddy yet we pan
out to discover that this exchange is
being observed by an audience as daddy
continues to berate my consistently and
misogynistic Lee eventually Mike finds
his voice though and rips off his key
revealing that he's covered in lesions
take that daddy we come to find out that
this little presentation is actually a
therapy session and the outcome may have
been positive I guess the MC of the show
sees the spectators off to their bus
Frank who's here in personal business
goes upstairs to meet his daughter
Candace and take her home during bath
that evening he discovers sores on her
back and since he returns to the
facility to confront dr. Raglan but his
left waiting and dr. Raglan's admin
describes his deteriorating patients in
a somewhat dismissive way he's starting
to get passionate about the whole thing
during their meeting we find out that
Frank is not only upset about his
daughter but concerned about his wife
Nolan and she's taken up residence at
the facility and Candace just business
on the weekends Nola's treatment
necessitates isolation the Franks on a
board with this no more weekends with
mommy the doctor is intent on
maintaining control in the two failed to
come to terms a quick visit to his
lawyer reveals there's little Frank can
do at the moment psycho plays mix is
considered a legit their appeal and
taking action that meaty stabilized NOLA
wouldn't present favorably in a custody
hearing the Frank plays along for now
intending to also seek out testimony or
evidence that may call dr. Raglan's
methodology into question the Frank
picks Candace up from school introducing
us to her teacher miss mayor as she
mentions that she missed Frank at the
parent-teacher conference but we'll save
that for later
Frank drops Candace off with grandma
where they enjoy thumbing through some
old photos the ensuing conversation
reveals that Noah's mother doesn't think
much of her chances for rehabilitation
and if they have a strained relationship
and we now cut to NOLA for the first
time amidst a psycho plastic session we
see the doctor as role playing in an
attempt to get to the bottom of how
Candace sustained her injuries
me you hit me with your fists and and
you scratched me with your nails NOLA
implies that she would never do this
having learned the devastation of this
sort of betrayal from her own mother
picking up on the insinuation
dr. Raglan changed his tone and becomes
grandma making forceful assertions and
trying to drive more info from NOLA in a
way that would imply grandma's guilt
even though the doctor has no way of
knowing if this is actually true as NOLA
gets increasingly agitated we see a
little door that opens to the exterior
of grandma's house getting pounded open
in a progressively violent manner the
end result is my personal worst
nightmare as a container of milk crashes
to the floor and quickly spreads avert
your eyes if you're squeamish because
you know the wood is going to absorb
that it takes a bit to get grandma
moving she's a little sluggish thanks to
the tumbler of bourbon she's been
sipping on she finds the kitchen trashed
and then looks up just in time for some
little weirdo to pounce knocking her to
the ground
the little [ __ ] then thoroughly
tenderizes her face afterward Candace
walks in and stands her and evidently
staring at the carnage friend gets a
call from the police an officer on
patrol saw a broken window at his
mother-in-law's house and went to take a
look they found Candace asleep upstairs
the station psychologist comes in to let
them know he's pretty sure she witnessed
something her behavior and memory loss
is a common symptom of traumatized
children he recommends trying to help
her remember what she saw so the trauma
doesn't express itself in some other way
next morning Frank picks up his
father-in-law from the airport after he
flew in for the funeral they have a
fairly mature conversation in front of
Candace and then Frank drops in on an
assisted-living Center to meet Gian
who's currently engaged in his afternoon
exercises damn your core must be on fire
Jane introduces himself with some crazy
talk about a secondary system in the
body no one knows about oh so they do
know about it they're meeting in the
interest of the aforementioned pursuit
of testing Lady Jane is also preparing
the lawsuit against dr. Raglan and
demonstrates the crux of his case in an
in Irving way he confirms there's a
group of them who meet and trade notes
and he offers to help in any way he can
meanwhile grandpa shows up at the
facility to arrange for NOLA to attend
her mother's funeral
he becomes indignant when dr. Raglan
doesn't allow it Barton vows to come
back to take her if she's not released
having confirmed in his session with
NOLA that her father's a coward the
doctor doesn't seem concerned
Frank is back at school to pick up
Candace and to pick up where he left off
with Miss Mayer he pulls a classic move
demonstrating his vulnerability by
confiding his deepest fears he's
concerned that despite her young age
he's already managed to screw up his kid
it's not just you oh so you're
confirming she is screwed up Franken
teacher are interrupted by Barton he's
hanging around the old dark house
getting himself drunk and depressed
he tells Frank about his plan to go back
to the Institute since he's intent on
going no matter what Frank goes to give
an assist while miss mayor babysits he
figures that Barton's too drunk to drive
so he at least needs to find some way to
prevent that
while waiting Barton wanders around the
house doing drunk stuff he mourns his
way upstairs and lies back on the bed in
the midst of his hopeless cry for
attention we find he has an audience how
good for him we get her first glimpse of
the murderous little freak but her still
left to wonder what the hell it is when
Frank arrives and hears a commotion
upstairs he runs to see what's going on
he bursts in to find Barton bloody on
the floor and before he has a chance to
process this he's attacked with home
decor showing how well those tennis
lessons paid off he deftly sidesteps and
gives chase the thing manages to get the
drop on him but then falls off and
expires after a mere shrug the inept
detective amidst they missed the child
in their initial search of the house and
suggests it must be some abused kid a
nearby neighbours been keeping in the
attic a good try there while they're
investigating further enola tries
calling home miss Maher answers the
phone and after a little more than a
Hello NOLA pops off Frank being a
general contractor was naturally invited
to attend the autopsy they note
abnormalities to the specimen limited
vision no Jen's
beak like gums in place of teeth a yolk
sac on its back in no navel indicating
it wasn't actually born that's a lot to
take in and given the novelty of these
features the medical examiner seems a
bit underwhelmed Noah's abusive phone
conversations immediately transition
into a therapy session in which dr.
Raglan again assumes more than he can
know by strongly insinuating Frank and
miss Maher are together angering them
frankenz home and finds out his budding
relationship has been ended before it
had a chance to blossom looking for a
win after a rough night he then tries to
put Candace at ease by assuring her the
thing she saw attack Ranma is now dead
the next day we find dr. Raglan
disturbed by news of the murders
ordering all the patients out of the
main house this infuriates Mike the
daddy lover from our opening sequence
who goes to connect up with Jan Frank
Rives having been summoned by Jan to see
what info he can discover
Mike expresses his frustration he refers
to NOLA as the queen and implies that
they were sent off in her favour when
pushed Mike has trouble focusing
he won't do it anymore and my real daddy
won't and that bastard hold it together
man oh that's better
the next morning we see Frank trapping
Candice at school two kids approach her
and lead her off it's his only don't
want her to see what's next which is
another brutal beating why are there
always small hammers available Frank
hears the screams but gets there too
late he takes a moment to stare
wistfully at the woman he almost dated
that one time while the rest of the
class continues to be traumatized in her
next session NOLA says she was dreaming
of Candice returning to her when dr.
Raglan knocks on the Miss mayor door we
find that NOLA is calm and collected and
in no way threatened by mention in this
potentially server meanwhile Frank is
heavily engaged in the search for his
daughter while being continuously
sandbagged by the detective Frank what
are we doing here who can't seem to keep
up his frank leads away we see a brief
scene showing the odd ones are leading
Candice through the snow and no
motorists seem to be concerned meanwhile
Frank is being visited by Mike who begs
him for food in his paranoid that
someone is following him when Frank
presses him he mentions the disturbed
children NOLA has been taken care of
with the dots connected Frank rushes off
to the institution Frank confronts dr.
Raglan as he creeps around one of the
cabins he tells the doctor that the kids
killed miss mayor and he suspects
brought Candice back to the Institute
dr. Raglan looks shaken for the first
time indicating days losing control he
says that Candice is one of their troop
and it's not safe to take her away Frank
makes a passing reference to NOLA being
a surrogate of other children the raglan
corrects and confirms the children of
her age we find out similar to genes
cancer and Mike's lesions the patient's
of cycle plasmic suffer from physical
representations of psychological trauma
NOLA has been birthing babies that
respond to her emotions without her
knowledge the plan now is to keep Villa
docile and distracted to keep the brood
calm so Raglan can remove Candice Frank
doesn't trust him fully but he goes
along with it
Frank approaches NOLA and attempts to
convince her that he wants to be with
her for everything yeah what Frank is
now afforded the privilege of witnessing
the most beautiful miracle of nature a
part the genetically conceived rage may
be emerging from its birth sac
unfortunately NOLA licking the thing
clean is too much for Frank and he finds
himself unable to hide his revulsion Oh
grow up
NOLA sees his deepest emotions reflected
in his eyes robbing him of the ability
to lie his way out of this too
Speight his best effort yes this riles
up the brood ending the story for dr.
Radler
when NOLA has the unfortunate thought
Frank finds himself no good solution to
an impossible problem and strangles NOLA
to silence the brute it works and he
goes to get Candice as they drive off we
see that Candice is suffering from
physical manifestations of her
psychological trauma which I assume
implies a happy ending good job everyone
and with that we conclude the brood
Cronenberg went on to create a series of
well-regarded now classic body horror
themed movies while this one may not
rate highly on the list I think it's one
of his better conceived ideas it has
less studio interference and scanners
and is more approachable than video
drumming it's just a simple clean
well-constructed story that gives you a
realistic sense of the strength of the
characters and then gut punches you with
an ultimate gross and at the end just a
nice simple family movie it's a must
watch I hope you enjoyed the video
thanks for watching
[Music]